This is a reboot of my [SchemaSync](https://github.com/adamosoftware/SchemaSync) project, which had run into [issues](https://github.com/adamosoftware/SchemaSync/issues) I couldn't figure out. The Nuget package is **AO.ModelSync.Library**.

The intent is the same: compare data models to generate a SQL diff merge script. The difference from other database diff apps out there is that this can treat .NET assemblies as data sources -- so that you can merge from C# model classes as well as from SQL Server databases.

The ultimate goal is to provide a GUI app for use as a Visual Studio "external tool" as an alternative to Entity Framework migrations. I never made peace with EF migrations, and have dabbled in alternative approaches for a long time. I believe it's a better dev experience to merge model classes on demand with a GUI tool rather than interrupting flow to write migrations. Besides being an interruption, migrations have their own administrative complications that, like I say, I never found acceptable.

Things different this time around:

- No MySQL support. This will target SQL Server only for now. There are base abstract classes I can build upon later to target other platforms if I get around to it.
- No empty table rebuilds. A lot of the earlier [issues](https://github.com/adamosoftware/SchemaSync/issues) I ran into before stemmed from dropping and re-creating empty tables in order to add columns. I did that because I wanted the table column order to match the order of properties in your source files as much as possible. But a lot complexity creeps in from this use case. So, this time around there won't be any table drops and rebuilds as part of the diff algorithm. Table rebuilds will be a standalone feature you can invoke periodically -- distinct from a diff merge -- when you want to align table column order with property order.
- No seed data support initially. Maybe later.
- A smaller dependency footprint. I had a lot of type load exceptions in my old GUI app due to dependencies getting out of date with my [Postulate](https://github.com/adamosoftware/Postulate) library. The app would have one version of Postulate, while projects might have a different version. I've refactored those dependencies into a new, smaller, more stable project called [DbSchema.Attributes](https://github.com/adamosoftware/DbSchema.Attributes). I'm hoping this will clear up type load exceptions in the app as well as be more attractive to dependency-concscious devs. This is all to say that ModelSync is not pure POCO when it comes to inferring metadata like unique constraints and foreign keys. I'll have more to say about developing model classes for ModelSync compatibility.

The forthcoming GUI tool will be closed-source, but the library that powers it, this repo, will remain open source.
